# 874. [Walking Robot Simulation][WRS] (模拟行走机器人)

[WRS]: https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/walking-robot-simulation/

**Difficulty:** `easy`

**Tag:** `Greedy`

------

## Question

A robot on an infinite XY-plane starts at point `(0,0)` and faces north. The robot can receive one of three possible types of `commands`:

- `-2`: turn left `90` degrees,
- `-1`: turn right `90` degrees, or
- `1<=k<=9`: moves forward `k` units.

Some of the grid squares are `obstacles`. The *i*th obstacle is at grid point `obstacles[i]=(xi, yi)`.

If the robot would try to move onto them, the robot stays on the previous grid square instead (but still continues following the rest of the route.)

Return *the maximum Euclidean distance that the robot will be from the origin **squared***.

------

## Method

First of all, we need to know two things:

- The *i*th obstacles is at grid point `obstacles[i]=(xi, yi)`.

This means the amount of obstacles is more than one. The parameter `obstacles` is a binary array, and each element `obstacle[i]` is another array. The first element of this array is represents the `X coordinate`, and the second is represents `Y coordinate`. So, the *i*th obstacle's coordinate is `(obstacles[i][0], obstacles[i][1])`.

- Return *the maximum Euclidean distance that the robot will be from the origin **squared***.

The Euclidean distance from `(x, y`) to `(0,0)` is `√(x^2 + y^2)`, so the squared of it is `x^2 + y^2`. And we should notice that, we need to return the maximum distance instead of the last position of robot.

Secondly, we could simulate robot walking. During the process of walking, we need to determine whether there is an obstacle in the robot's walking route. If it is, the robot should stop in front of obstacle and wait next command. We use ***greedy*** at here:

- Whether there is an obstacle in the robot's walking route.

We could use a ***set*** to store the coordinates of obstacles, then the time complexity of determining whether there is a obstacle will be O(1).

- Some parameters:
  - The direction the robot faces
  - The `X coordinate` of robot current position
  - The `Y coordinate` of robot current position

These parameters will change with different commands and we could find some laws.

**1). About direction**

Look around the origin point (0,0) in a clockwise direction. Assume `North=0`, `East=1`, `South=2`, `West=3`. And we can get this:

```
current Direction:	North(0)	East(1)		South(2)	West(3)
Turn Left:			West(3)		North(0)	East(1)		South(2)
Turn Right:			East(1)		South(2)	West(3)		North(0)
```

We could know:

After turning left: direction + 3 -> (direction + 3) % 4

After turning right: direction + 1 -> (direction + 1) % 4

**2). About Moving**

Assume the current position of robot is `(x, y)`, after moving forward one step, it's position will be:

