# 0. Linked List

> **--《Intro to Algorithms》**

------

A ***linked list*** is a data structure in which the objects are arranged in a linear order.   Unlike an array, however, in which the linear order is determined by the array indices, the order in a linked list is determined by a pointer in each object. Linked list provide a simple, flexible representation for dynamic sets, supporting (though not necessarily effciently) all the operations listed in stakc and queue.

Each element of a ***doubly linked list*** *L* is an object with an attribute (属性) *key* and two other pointer attributes: *next* and *prev*. The object may also contain other satellite data. Given an element *x* in the list, *x.next* points to its successor in the linekd list, and *x.prev* points to its predecessor. If *x.prev* = NIL, the element *x* has no predecessor and is therefore the first element, of ***head***, of the list. If *x.next* = NIL, the element *x* has no successor and is therefore the last element, of ***tail***, of the list. An attribute *L.head* points to the first element of the list. If *L.head* = NIL, the list is empty.

A list may have one of several forms. It may be either singly linked or doubly linked, it may be sorted or not, and it may be circular or not. If a list is ***singly linked***, we omit the *prev* pointer in each element. If a list is ***sorted***, the linear order of the list corresponds to the linear order of keys stored in elements of the list; the minimum element is then the head of the list, and the maximum element is the tail. If the list is ***unsorted***, the elements can appear in any order. In a ***circular list***, the *prev* pointer of the head of the list points to the tail, and the *next* pointer of the tail of the list points to the head. We can think of a circular list  as a ring of element. In the remainder of this section, we assume that the lists with which we are working are unsorted and doubly linked.

#### Searching a linked list

The procedure *LIST-SEARCH(L,K)* finds the first element with key *k* in list *L* by a simple linear search, returning a pointer to this element. If no object with key *k* appears in the list, then the prodecure returns NIL.

```java
public ListNode listSearch(ListNode head, k){
	ListNode x = head;
	While (x != null &&　x.val != k){
		x = x.next;
	}
	return x;
}
```

To search a list of *n* objects, the *LIST-SEARCH* prodecure takes O(N) time in the worst case, since it may have to search the entire list.

#### Inserting into a linked list

Given an element *x* whose *key* attribute has already been set, the *LIST-INSERT* prodecure "splices" *x* onto the front of the linked list.

```java
public ListNode listInsert(ListNode head,ListNode x){
	x.next = head;
	if (head != null){
		head.prev = x;
	}
	x.prev = null;
}
```

The running time for *LIST-INSERT* on a list of *n* elements is O(1).

#### Deleting from a linked list

The prodecure *LIST-DELETE* removes an element *x* from a linked list *L*. It must be given a pointer *x*, and it then "splices" *x* out of the list by updating pointers. If we wish to delete an element with a given key, we must first call *LIST-SEARCH* to retrieve(找回) a pointer to the element.

```java
public void listDelete(ListNode head, x){
	if (head.prev != null){
		x.prev.next = x.next;
	}else{
		head = x.next;
	}
	if (x.next != null){
		x.next.prev = x.prev;
	}
}
```

*LIST-DELETE* runs in O(1) time, but if we wish to delete an element with a given key, O(N) time is required in the worst case because we must first call *LIST-SEARCH* to find the element.

#### Sentinels

The code for *LIST-DELETE* would be simpler if we could ingore the boundary conditions at the head and tail of the list:

> LIST-DELETE ' (L,x)
>
> 1. x.prev.next = x.next
> 2. x.next.prev = x.prev

A ***sentinel*** is a <u>dummy object</u> (哑对象) that allows us to simplify boundary conditions. For example, suppose that we provide with list *L* an object *L.nil* that represents NIL but has all the attributes of the other objects in the list. Wherever we have a reference to NIL in list code, we replace it by a reference doubly linked list into a ***circular, doubly linked list with a sentinel***, in which the sentinel *L.nil* lies between the head and tail. Similarly, both the *next* attribute of the tail and the *prev* attribute of the head point to *L.nil*. Since *L.nil* points to the head, we can eliminate the attribute *L.head* altogether, replacing references to it by references to *L.nil.next*. 

The code for *LIST-SEARCH* remians the same as before, but with the refences to NIL and *L.head* changed as specified above:

```java
public ListNode listSearch_1 (ListNode head, k){
	ListNode sentinel = new ListNode(0);
	sentinel.next = head;
	ListNode x = sentinel.next;
	while (x != sentinel && x.val != k){
		x = x.next;
	}
	return x;
}
```

We use the two-line procedure *LIST-DELETE '* from before to delete an element from the list. The following procedure inserts an element into the list:

```java
public void listInsert_1 (ListNode head, ListNode x){
	ListNode sentinel = new ListNode(0);
	x.next = sentinel.next;
	sentinel.next.prev = x;//修改x与后继元素
	sentinel.next = x;
	x.prev = sentinel;//修改x与哨兵
}
```

Sentinels rarely reduce the <u>asymptotic time bounds</u>(渐进时间界) of data structure operations, but they can reduce constant factors. The gain from using sentinels within loops is usually a matter of clarity of code rather than speed; the linked list code, for example, becomes simpler when we use sentinels, but we save only O(1) time in the *LIST-INSERT '* and *LIST-DELETE '* procedures.In other situations, however, the use of sentinels helps to tighten the code in a loop, thus reducing the coefficient of, say, *n* or *n^2* in the running time.

We should use sentinels judiciously. When there are many small lists, the extra storage used by their sentinels can represent significant wasted memory.