# 21. [Merge Two Sorted Lists][MTSL] (合并有序链表)

[MTSL]: https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/merge-two-sorted-lists/	"Merge Two Sorted Lists"

**Difficulty:** `easy`

**Tag:** `Linked List`

------

### **Question**

Merge two sorted lists and return it as a new **sorted** list. The new list should be made by splicing together the nodes of the first two lists.

------

### **Method**

#### Method 1 -- Recursion

We could define a operation `merge` recursively as follows (ignore boundary conditions, such as empty linked list, etc.):

- *list1[0] + merge (list1[1:], list2)	list1[0] < list2[0]*

- *list2[0] + merge (list1, list2[1:])	otherwise*

That is, the smaller element in the list head operate `merge` with other elements.

We model the above recursive process, and need to consider the boundary conditions. If `l1` or `l2` is a empty linked list, we don't need to operate `merge`, return non-empty linked list directly. Ortherwise, we need to determine which is smaller between the head element of `l1` and `l2`. Then operation this process recursively, until one of two lists is empty.

```java
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * public class ListNode {
 *     int val;
 *     ListNode next;
 *     ListNode() {}
 *     ListNode(int val) { this.val = val; }
 *     ListNode(int val, ListNode next) { this.val = val; this.next = next; }
 * }
 */

class Solution {
    public ListNode mergeTwoLists(ListNode l1, ListNode l2) {
        if (l1 == null) {
            return l2;
        } else if (l2 == null) {
            return l1;
        } else if (l1.val < l2.val) {//Remark_1
            l1.next = mergeTwoLists(l1.next, l2);//Remark_2
            return l1;
        } else {
            l2.next = mergeTwoLists(l1, l2.next);
            return l2;}}}
来源：力扣（LeetCode）
```

*Remark_1 & Remark_2: If we want to find a element in a linked list, we need to search them one by one by use `pointer`. So, in this case, `l1.val` represents the first element in `l1`, and `l1.next` means the next element of current element.* 

##### Complexity

- *Time Complexity:* O(M+N)
- *Space Complexity:* O(N+M)

#### Method 2 -- Iteration

We also could use iterate method to realize this method. If `l1` and `l2` are non-empty lists, we should determine which head element is smaller, and add this element to the list.Then, move the pointer backward.

At first, we set a sentinel node `prehead`, which could make it easier for us to return to the merged list at the end. After this, we need to maintain a pointer `perv`, and adjust its poniter `next`. Then, we repeat this process until `l1` or `l2` points to `null`: If value of current node of `l1` is less than or equal to `l2`, we connect current node of `l1` to the back of pointer `prev` and move pointer of `l1` backward. Otherwise, we do the same operation to the `l2`. No matter which element we connect, we need to move the `prev` backward.

At the end of loop, there are at most one of `l1` and `l2` is non-empty. Because of two lists inputed are already sorted, no matter which list is non-empty, the elements it contains is more than elements in the list merged. This means we only need to connect this non-empty list behind of the list merged simply, and then return this list.

```java
class Solution {
    public ListNode mergeTwoLists(ListNode l1, ListNode l2) {
        ListNode prehead = new ListNode(-1);

        ListNode prev = prehead;//Remark_1
        while (l1 != null && l2 != null) {
            if (l1.val <= l2.val) {
                prev.next = l1;
                l1 = l1.next;
            } else {
                prev.next = l2;
                l2 = l2.next;
            }
            prev = prev.next;
        }

        // 合并后 l1 和 l2 最多只有一个还未被合并完，我们直接将链表末尾指向未合并完的链表即可
        prev.next = l1 == null ? l2 : l1;

        return prehead.next;
    }
}
来源：力扣（LeetCode）
```

*Reamrk_1: `prehead` and `prev` are point to the same linked list, but at the end, `prev` is move to the tail of list, so we need `prehead` to make it easier to return to the head of linked list.*

##### Complexity

- *Time Complexity:* O(M+N)
- *Space Comlexity:* O(1)