# 66. [Plus One][66] (加一)

[66]: https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/plus-one/	"Puls One"

**Difficulty**: `easy`

**Tags**: `Array`

------

### **Question**

Given a **non-empty** array of decimal digits represtenting a non-negative integer, increment one to the integer.

The digits are stored such that the most significant digit is at the head of the list, and each element in the array contains a single digit.

You may assume the integer does not contain any leading zero, except the number 0 itself.

------

### **Method**

We could divide all of non-negative integer into three kinds:

1. The last position is not the number *9*. For example: `[1,2,3]` / `[1,9,8]`. This kind of integer just need to plus *1* to the last position number.
2. The last few positions are the number *9*, but it is not beginning with number *9*. For example: `[1,9,9]` / `[2,8,9,9]`. When these integer plus *1*, the last *9* all become *0*, and the closest numer plus *1*.
3. All the positons are all the number *9*. For example: `[9,9]` / `[9,9,9]`. When these integer plus *1*, we need to create a new array to store it (Because the length of *Arraylist* in java can not be changed). The length of new array is  one longer than the original one. And all positions all the number *0*, except the first.

##### Own Code

```java
class Solution {
    public int[] plusOne(int[] digits) {
        for (int i = digits.length - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
            if (digits[i] < 9) {
                digits[i] += 1;
                break;
            } else if (digits[i] == 9 && i != 0) {
                digits[i] = 0;
                continue;
            }else {
                int[] allNine = new int[digits.length+1];
                allNine[0]=1;
                        Arrays.fill(allNine,1,allNine.length,0);//Rmeark_1
                return allNine;
            }
        }
        return digits;
    }
}
```

*Remark_1:  **jave.util.Arrays** has a method **fill**:*

*1).  `public static void fill (int[] a, int val)`*  

*Parameters:* 

*`a` - the array to be filled.*

*`val` - the value to be stored in all elements of the array.*

*2). `public static void fill (int[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex, int val)`*

*Parameters:*

*`a` - the array to be filled.*

*`fromIndex` - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be filled with the specified value.*

*`toIndex` - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be filled with the specified value.*

*`val` - the value to be stored in all elements of the array.*

------

#### Reference

[1]. [fill][F]

[F]: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/util/Arrays.html#fill(int,%20int)	"fill"

