# 198. [House Robber][HR] (打家劫舍)

[HR]: https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/house-robber/

**Difficulty:** `medium`

**Tag:** `Dynamic Programming`

------

## Question

You are a professional robber planning to rob houses along a street. Each house has a certain amount of money stashed, the only constraint stopping you from sobbing each of them is that adjacent houses have security system conntected and **it will automatically contact to police if two adjacent houses were broken into the same night**.

Given a list of non-negative integers representing the amount of money of each house, determine the maximum amount of money you can rob tonight **without alerting the police**.

------

## Method -- DP + Scrolling Array

Consider the simplest case first. If there is only one house, steal this hosue could get the maximum total money. If there are two houses, because they are adjacent, only one of them could be stolen. So choose the house with higher money could get the maximum total money.

If there are more than two houses, how to calculate the maximum total money? For *K*th (K>2) house, there are two choices:

1. Steal *K*th house, then could not steal *K-1*th house, the total money is *K*th house plus the maximum total money of the *K-2*th house.
2. Don't steal *K*th house, and the total money is the maximum money of stealing previous *K-1* houses.

Choose the bigger one in two cases, and we can get the answer. Use `dp[i]` to represent the maximum total money of previous i houses, then the state transition equtation:

`dp[i] = max( dp[i-2] + nums[i], dp[i-1])`

The boundary conditions is `dp[0]=nums[0]`, `dp[1] = max(nums[0], nums[1])`.

Consider about saving space and maximum money of each house is only related to previous two houses, we could use scrolling array to store them.

##### Reference Code

```java
class Solution {
    public int rob(int[] nums) {
        if (nums == null || nums.length == 0) {
            return 0;
        }
        int length = nums.length;
        if (length == 1) {
            return nums[0];
        }
        int first = nums[0], second = Math.max(nums[0], nums[1]);
        for (int i = 2; i < length; i++) {
            int temp = second;
            second = Math.max(first + nums[i], second);
            first = temp;
        }
        return second;}}
```

##### Own Code

```java
class Solution {
    public int rob(int[] nums) {
        if (nums.length == 0){return 0;}
        if (nums.length == 1){return nums[0];}
        if (nums.length == 2){return Math.max(nums[0],nums[1]);}
        
        for (int i = 2; i < nums.length; i ++){
            if (i == 2){
                nums[i] += nums[0];
            }else{
                nums[i] += Math.max(nums[i-2], nums[i-3]);
            }
        }    
        return Math.max(nums[nums.length-1], nums[nums.length-2]);}}
```

**Complexity:** *Time: O(N); Space: O(1)*