# 1332. [Remove Palindromic Subsequences][RPS] (删除回文子序列)

[RPS]: https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/remove-palindromic-subsequences/	"Remove Palindromic Subsequences"

**Difficulty:** `easy`

**Tag:** `String`

------

### **Question**

Given a string `s` consisting only of letters `a` and `b`. In a single step you can remove one palindromic **subsequence** from `s`.

Return the minimum number of steps to make the given string empty.

A string is a subsequence of a givem string, if it is generated by deleting some characters of a given string without changing its order.

A string is called palindrome if is one that reads the same backward as well as forward.

------

### **Method**

This question is a brain teaser rather than a question. In this case, we need to distinguish the concept of **subsequence** and **substring**.

For example, in stirng `abababaaabbbaabbab`:

- One of its **subsequence** is: aaaaaa
- One of its **substring** is: ababa

Ther are two different concepts. I thought it was a substring, and can't think out a perfect method. My code is as follows.

##### Own Code

```java
public class Remove {
    public static int removePalindromeSub(String s) {
        if (s.length()<1){
            return 0;
        }
        String sr = new String(new StringBuffer(s).reverse());
        int length = s.length();
        int begin = 0;
        int num = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < length; i++) {
            String subs = s.substring(begin, i+1);
            if (sr.contains(subs)) {
                continue;
            } else {
                begin = i;
                i--;
                num++;
            }
        }
        return num + 1;
    }
```

My method could be executed in the four examples given in the title and some simple situations. But it is not correct when string is complex.

But if is subsequence, we only need to determine follow these steps:

1. Determine whether this string is empty. If  it is, return 0.
2. Determine whether this string is a palindrome. If it is, return 1.
3. If it is not the first two situations, we need to remove all `a` at first. Then remove `b`. Therefore, return 2.

##### Reference Code

```java
class Solution {
    public int removePalindromeSub(String s) {
        if ("".equals(s)) return 0;
        if (s.equals(new StringBuilder(s).reverse().toString())) return 1;
        return 2;
    }
}
来源：力扣（LeetCode）
```

