# 20. [Valid Parentheses][VP](有效的括号)

[VP]: https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/valid-parentheses/	"[Valid Parentheses][VP]"

**Difficulty:** `easy`

**Tag:** `String` / `Stack`

------

### **Question**

Given a string `s` containing just the characters `'('`, `')'`, `'['`, `']'`, `'{'`, `'}'`, determine if the input string is valid.

An input string is valid if:

1. Open brackets must be closed by the same type of brackets.
2. Open brackets must be closed in the correct order.

------

### **Method**

#### Method 1 -- Stack

Traverse to the string `s`, when we encounter a left parenthesis, we except there will be a right parenthesis has the same type in subsequent traversals. Since the left parenthesis encountered later must be clsoed first, we use a `stack` to store them.

In the traversal, if we encounter a left parenthesis, we `push` it in stack. Or if we encounter a right parenthesis, `pop` the element on the top of stack, and determine whether their type are same. If not, return false. To determine quickly, we could use *HashMap* to store each parenthesis. `key` is right parenthesis, `value` is left parenthesis.

At the end of traversal, if stack has none element, it means all left parenthesis are closed, then return true. Or return false.

Notice that valid string length must be even, so we can return false directly if it is odd.

##### Reference Code

```java
class Solution {
    public boolean isValid(String s) {
        int n = s.length();
        if (n % 2 == 1) {
            return false;
        }

        Map<Character, Character> pairs = new HashMap<Character, Character>() {{
            put(')', '(');
            put(']', '[');
            put('}', '{');
        }};
        //Knowledge_1
        Deque<Character> stack = new LinkedList<Character>();
        for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            char ch = s.charAt(i);
            if (pairs.containsKey(ch)) {
                if (stack.isEmpty() || stack.peek() != pairs.get(ch)) {
                    return false;
                }
                stack.pop();
            } else {
                stack.push(ch);
            }
        }
        return stack.isEmpty();}}
来源：力扣（LeetCode）
```

##### Complexity

- *Time Complexity:* O(N)
- *Space Complexity:* O(N+(number of elments)), in this question is O(N+6)

------

### **Knowledge**

[Java Deque Tutorial][JDT]

[JDT]: http://tutorials.jenkov.com/java-collections/deque.html#:~:text=The%20Java%20Deque%20interface%2C%20java,abbreviation%20of%20Double%20Ended%20Queue.	"Java Deque Tutorial"

The ***Java Deque*** interface, ***java.util.Deque***, represents a double ended queue (双端队列), meaning a queue where you can add and remove elements to and from both ends of the queue. The name *Deque* (pronounce as *deck*) is an abbreviation of *Double Ended Queue*. 

Because you can enqueue and dequeue from both ends of a Java Deque, you can use a Deque as both a queue and a stack. The Java *Deque* interface extends the ***Java Queue*** interface. That means that you can use all the Java Queue methods when working with a Deque. The Deque interface does not extend the ***Java Stack*** interface, but the Deque interface defines methods that enable you to do the same operations you would normally do on a stack (push,pop,peek).

##### Deque Implementations

Since Java *Deque* is an interface you need to instantiate a concrete implementation of the interface in order to use it. You can choose between the following *Deque* implements in the Java Collections API:

- java.util.LinkedList
- java.util.ArrayDeque

##### Creating a Deque

Before you can use a Java *Deque* you must create an instance of one of classes that implements the *Deque* interface as follows:

- `Deque deque = new LinkedList();`
- `Deque deque = new ArrayDeque();`

##### Method

***push()***

The *push()* method adds an element to the beginning (head) of a Java Deque method.

```java
Deque<String> deque = new LinkedList<>();
deque.push("element 0");
```

***peek()***

The *peek()* method returns the first element from the beginning (head) of a Java Deque without removing it. If the Deque is empty, *peek()* returns *null*.

```java
Deque<String> deque = new ArrayDeque<>();
deque.add("first element");
deque.add("last element");
String firstElement = deque.peek();
```

***pop()***

The *pop()* method removes an element from the beginning (head) of a Java Deque.

```java
Deque<String> deque = new LinkedList<>();
deque.push("element 0");
String removedElement = deque.pop();
```

