# 155. [Min Stack][MS] (最小栈)

[MS]: https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/min-stack/solution/

**Difficulty:** `easy`

**Tag:** `Stack` / `Design`

------

## Question

Design a stack that supports push, pop, top, and retrieving the minimum element in a constant time.

------

## Method

The data structure ***stack*** has a characteristic that **FILO**. For example, if there are other elements `b,c,d` in stack before putting element `a` in this stack. Then no matter what operations the stack has been done through afterwards, as long as `a` is in the stack, `b,c,d` must be in the stack. `b,c,d` will not be popped before `a` is popped.

We could create a stack to record minimum value `m` of current stack when each element `a` push into stack, and as long as the element `a` is the top element, the minimum is `m`.

From the above, we could design a data structure to make each element `a` and its corresponding minimum value `m` keep a one-to-one correspondence at all times. Thus, we could create a auxiliary stack to realize the algorithm above:

- When push an element into stack, we get the top element of auxiliary stack and compare it with current element. Push the minimum into the auxiliary stack.
- When an element is popped, let auxiliary stack pops top element either.
- At any time, the minimum element is stored in the top element of auxiliary stack.

##### Reference Code

```java
class MinStack {
    Deque<Integer> xStack;
    Deque<Integer> minStack;

    public MinStack() {
        xStack = new LinkedList<Integer>();
        minStack = new LinkedList<Integer>();
        minStack.push(Integer.MAX_VALUE);
    }
    
    public void push(int x) {
        xStack.push(x);
        minStack.push(Math.min(minStack.peek(), x));
    }
    
    public void pop() {
        xStack.pop();
        minStack.pop();
    }
    
    public int top() {
        return xStack.peek();
    }
    
    public int getMin() {
        return minStack.peek();}}
来源：力扣（LeetCode）
```

##### Complexity

- *Time Complexity:* O(1)
- *Space Complexity:* O(N)