# 575. [Distribute Candies][DC] (分糖果)

[DC]: https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/distribute-candies/

**Difficulty:** `easy`

**Tag:** `Hash Table`

------

## Question

Alice has `n` candies, where the *i*th candy is of type `candyType[i]`. Alice noticed that she started to gain weight, so she visited a doctor. The doctor advised Alice to only eat `n/2` of the candies she has (`n` is always even). Alice likes her candies very much, and she wants to eat the maximum number of different types of candies while she still following the doctor's advice.

Given the integer array `candyType` of length `n`, return the ***maximum*** number of different types of candies she can eat if she only eats `n/2` of them.

------

## Method

#### Method 1 -- Brute Force

The brute force approach is really simple, although not optimal solution. We provide it here to start the discussion even if the time limits are too strict to let this solution pass all the test cases in time.

We can generate all the <u>permutations</u>(排列) of the given `nums` array representing the candies and determine the number of unique elements in the first half of the generated array.

In order to determine the number of unique elements in the first half of the array, we put all the required elements in a set and count the number of elements in the set. We count such unique elements in the first half of the generated arrays for all the permutations possible and return the size of the largest set.

##### Reference Code

```java
public class Solution {
    int max_kind = 0;
    public int distributeCandies(int[] nums) {
        permute(nums, 0);
        return max_kind;
    }
    public void permute(int[] nums, int l) {
        if (l == nums.length - 1) {
            HashSet < Integer > set = new HashSet < > ();
            for (int i = 0; i < nums.length / 2; i++) {
                set.add(nums[i]);
            }
            max_kind = Math.max(max_kind, set.size());
        }
        for (int i = l; i < nums.length; i++) {
            swap(nums, i, l);
            permute(nums, l + 1);
            swap(nums, i, l);
        }
    }
    public void swap(int[] nums, int x, int y) {
        int temp = nums[x];
        nums[x] = nums[y];
        nums[y] = temp;}}
```

**Complexity:** *Time: O(N!); Space: O(N)*

#### Method 2 -- Better Brute Force

Before looking into the idea behind this approach, firstly we need to observe one point. The maximum number of unique candies which the girl can obtain could be at most `n/2`, where `n` refers to the number of candies. Further, in case the number of unique candies are below `n/2`, to maximize the number of unique candies that the girl will obtain, we'll assign all the unique candies to the girl. Thus, in such a case, the number of unique candies the girl gets is equal to the total number of unique candies in the given *candies* array.

Now, let's look at the ides behind this approach. We need to find the total number of unique candies in the given *candies* array. One way to find the number of unique candies is to traverse over the given *candies* array. Whenever we encounter an element, say `candies[j]`, we can mark all the elements which are the same as `candies[j]` as invalid and increment the count of unique elements by 1.

Thus, we need to do such markings for all the elements of *candies* array. At the end, *count* gives the required number of unique candies that can be given to the girl. Further, the value to be returned is given by: `min[(n/2), count]`. Instead of finding the min, we can stop the traversal over the given *candies* array as soon as the *count* exceeds `n/2`.

##### Reference Code

```java
public class Solution {
    public int distributeCandies(int[] candies) {
        int count = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < candies.length && count < candies.length / 2; i++) {
            if (candies[i] != Integer.MIN_VALUE) {
                count++;
                for (int j = i + 1; j < candies.length; j++) {
                    if (candies[j] == candies[i])
                        candies[j] = Integer.MIN_VALUE;}}}

        return count;}}
```

**Complexity:** *Time: O(N^2); Space: O(1)*

#### Method 3 -- Using Sort

We can sort the given *candies* array and find out the elements which are unique by comparing the adjacent elements of the sorted array. For every new element found (which isn't the same as the previous element), we need to update the *count*. At the end, we can return the required result as `min[(n/2), count]`, as discussed in the previous approach.

##### Reference Code

```java
public class Solution {
    public int distributeCandies(int[] candies) {
        Arrays.sort(candies);
        int count = 1;
        for (int i = 1; i < candies.length && count < candies.length / 2; i++)
            if (candies[i] > candies[i - 1])
                count++;
        return count;}}
```

**Complexity:** *Time: O(NlogN); Space: O(1)*

#### Method 4 -- Using Set

Another way to find the number of unique elements is to traverse over all the elements of the given *candies* array and keep on putting the elements in a set. By the property of a set, it will contain only unique elements. At the end, we can count the number of elements in the set, given by, say *count*. The value to be returned will be given by `min[(n/2), count]`, as discussed in previous approaches. Here, `n` refers to the size of the *candies* array.

##### Reference Code

```java
public class Solution {
    public int distributeCandies(int[] candies) {
        HashSet < Integer > set = new HashSet < > ();//Record_1
        for (int candy: candies) {
            set.add(candy);
        }
        return Math.min(set.size(), candies.length / 2);}}
```

##### Own Code

```java

class Solution {
    public int distributeCandies(int[] candyType) {
        Map<Integer, Integer> candy = new HashMap<Integer, Integer>();
        int number = candyType.length >> 1;
        int result = 0;
        
        for (int i = 0; i < candyType.length; i ++){
            if (! candy.containsKey(candyType[i])){
                result ++;
                candy.put(candyType[i], 1);
            }
        }
        return Math.min(number, result);}}
```

**Complexity:** *Time: O(N); Space: O(N)*

*Record_1: **HashSet** doesn't allow duplicate values. **HashMap** store key, value pairs and it does not allow duplicate keys. If key is duplicate then old key is replaced with new value. **In this case**, using **HashSet** is better.*