# 0. Binary Search Trees

> -- 《Introduction to Algorithms》

------

The search tree data structure supports many dynamic-set operations, including *SEARCH, MINIMUM, MAXIMUM, PREDECESSOR, SUCCESSOR, INSERT, and DELETE*. Thus, we can use a search tree both as a dictionary and as a <u>priority queue</u>(优先队列).

> A priority queue in Java is a special type of [queue](https://www.callicoder.com/java-queue/) wherein all the elements are **ordered** as per their natural ordering or based on a custom `Comparator` supplied at the time of creation.
>
> The *front* of the priority queue contains the least element according to the specified ordering, and the *rear* of the priority queue contains the greatest element.

Basic operations on a binary tree take time <u>proportional</u>(成正比) to the height of the tree. For a complete binary tree with *n* nodes, such operations run in O(logN) worst-case time. If the tree is a linear chain of *n* nodes, however, the same operations take O(N) worst-case time.

In practice, we can't always guarantee that binary search tree are built randomly, but we can design variations of binary search trees with good guaranteed worst-case performance on basic operations. 

## What is a binary search tree?

A binary search tree is organized, as the name suggests, in a binary tree. We can represent such a tree by a linked data structure in which each node is an object. In addition to a *key* and satellite data, each node contains attributes *left*, *right*, and *p* that point to the nodes corresponding to its left child, its right child, and its parent, respectively. If a child or the parent is missing, the appropriate attribute contains the value NIL. The root node is the only node in the tree whose  parent is NIL.

The keys in a binary search tree are always stored in such a way as to satisfy the ***binary-search-tree property***.

*Let x be a node in a binary search tree. If y is a node in the left subtree of x, then y.key <= x.key. If y is a node in the right subtree of x, then y.key >= x.key.*

The binary-search-tree property allows us to print out all the keys in a binary search tree in sorted order by a simple recursive algorithm, called an ***<u>inorder tree walk</u>***(前序遍历). This algorithm is so named because it prints the key of the root of a subtree between printing the values in its left subtree and printing those in its right subtree. (Similarly, a ***preorder tree walk***(前序遍历) prints the root before the values in either subtree, and a ***postorder tree walk***(后序遍历) prints the root after the values in its subtrees.) To use the following procedure to print all the elements in a binary search tree *T*, we call *INORDER-TREE-WALK (T.root)*.

##### Define a binary tree

```java
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * public class TreeNode {
 *     int val;
 *     TreeNode left;
 *     TreeNode right;
 *     TreeNode(int x) { val = x; }
 * }
```

```java
public RETURNTYPE inorderTreeWalk (TreeNode root){
	if (root != null){
        inorderTreeWalk (root.left)
    }
    print root.left;
    inorderTreeWalk (root.right)
}
```

It takes O(N) time to walk an *n*-node binary search tree, since after the initial call, the procedure calls itself recursively exactly twice for each node in the tree - once for its left child and once for its right child.

------

## Querying a binary search tree

We often need to search for a key stored in a binary search tree. Besides the *SEARCH* operation, binary search trees can support such queries as *MINIMUM, MAXIMUM, SUCCESSOR, and PREDECESSOR*.

#### Searching

We use the following procedure to search for a node with a given key in a binary search tree. Given a pointer to the root of the tree and a key *k*, *TREE-SEARCH* returns a pointer to a node with key *k* if one exists; otherwise, it returns NIL.

```java
public TreeNode treeSearch (TreeNode root, k){
	if (root == null |｜ k == root.val){
		return root;
	}
	if (k < root.val){
		return treeSearch(root.left, k);
	}else{
		return treeSearch(root.rigth, k);
	}
}
```

The procedure begins its search at the root and traces a simple path downward in the tree. For each node *x* it encounters, it compares the key *k* with *x.key*. If the two keys are equal, the search terminates. If *k* is smaller than *x.key*, the search continues in the left subtree of *x*, since the binary-search-tree implies that *k* could not be stored in the right subtree. Symmetrically, if *k* is larger than *x.key*, the search continues in the right subtree. The nodes encountered during the recursion form a simple path downward from the root of the tree, and thus the running time of *TREE-SEARCH* is O(h), where *h* is the height of the tree.

We can rewrite this procedure in an iterative fashion by "<u>unrolling</u>(展开)" the recursion into a **while** loop. On most computers, the iterative version is more efficient.

```java
public TreeNode iterativeTreeSearch (TreeNode root, k){
	while (root != null && k != root.val){
		if (k < root.val){
			root = root.left;
		}else{
			root = root.right;
		}
	}
	return root;
}
```

#### Minimum and maximum

We can always find an element in a binary search tree whose key is a minimum by following *left* child pointers from the root until we encounter a null. The following procedure returns a pointer to the minimum element in the subtree rooted at a given node *x*, which we assume to be non-null.

```java
public TreeNode treeMinimum (TreeNode root){
	while (root.left != null){
		root = root.left;
	}
	return root;
}
```

The binary-search-tree property guarantees that *TREE-MINIMUM* is correct. If a node *x* has no left subtree, then since every key in the right subtree of *x* is at least as large as *x.key*, the minimum key in the subtree rooted at *x* is *x.key*. If node *x* has a left subtree, then since no key in the right subtree is smaller than *x.key* and every key in the left subtree is not larger than *x.key*, the minimum key in the subtree rooted at *x* resides in the subtree rooted at *x.left*. The <u>pseudocode</u>(伪代码) for *TREE-MAXIMUM* is symmetric:

```java
public TreeNode treeMinimum (TreeNode root){
	while (root.right != null){
		root = root.right;
	}
	return root;
}
```

Both of those procedures run in O(h) time on a tree of height *h* since, as in *TREE-SEARCH*, the sequence of nodes encountered forms a simple path downward from the root.

#### Successor and predecessor

Given a node in a binary search tree, sometimes we need to find its successor in the sorted order determined by an inorder tree walk. If all keys are distinct, the successor of a node *x* is the node with the smallest key greater than *x.key*. The structure of a binary search tree allows us to determine the successor of a node without ever comparing keys. The following procedure returns the successor of a node *x* in a binary search tree if it exists, and NIL if *x* has the largest key in the tree:

```java
public TreeNode treeSuccessor (TreeNode x){
	if (x.right != null){
		return treeMINIMUM(x.right);
	}
	TreeNode y = x.parent
	while (y != null && x == y.right){
		x = y;
		y = y.parent
	}
	return y;
}
```

The running time of *TREE-SUCCESSOR* on a tree of height *h* is O(h), since we either follow a simple path up the tree or follow a simple path down the tree. The procedure *TREE-PREDECESSOR*, which is symmetric to *TREE-SUCCESSOR*, also runs in time O(h).

```java
public TreeNode treePredeccessor (TreeNode x){
	if (x.left != null){
		return treeMAXIMUM(x.left);
	}
	TreeNode y = x.parent
	while (y != null && x == y.left){
		x = y;
		y = y.parent
	}
	return y;
}
```

## Insertion and deletion

The operations of insertion and deletion cause the dynamic set represented by a binary search tree to change. The data structure must be modified to reflect this change, but in such a way that the binary-search-tree property continues to hold.

#### Insertion

To insert a new value *v* into a binary search tree *T*, we use the procedure *TREE-INSERT*. The procedure takes a node *z* for which *z.key = v*, *z.left = NIL*, and *z.right = NIL*. It modifies *T* and some of the attributes of *z* in such a way that it inserts *z* into an appropriate position in the tree.

```java
public void treeInsert (TreeNode root, TreeNode z){
	TreeNode y = null;
	TreeNode x = root;
	while (x != null){
		y = x;
		if (z.val < x.val){
			x = x.left;
		}else{
			x = x.right;
		}
		z.parent = y;
		if (y == null){
			root = z //Tree was empty
		}else if (z.val < y.val){
			y.left = z;
		}else{
			y.right = z;
		}
	}
}
```

Like the other primitive operations on search trees, the procedure *TREE-INSERT* runs in O(h) time on a tree of height *h*.

#### Deletion

The overall strategy  for deleting a node *z* from a binary search tree *T* has three basic cases but one if the cases is a bit tricky.

- If *z* has no children, then we simply remove it by modifying its parent to replace *z* with NIL as its child.
- If *z* has just one child, then we <u>elevate</u>(提升) that child to take *z*'s position in the tree by modifying *z*'s parent to replace *z* by *z*'s child.
- If *z* has two children, then we find *z*'s successor y -- which must be in z's right subtree -- and have y take *z*'s position in the tree. The rest of *z*'s original right subtree becomes *y*'s new right subtree, and *z*'s left subtree becomes *y*'s new left subtree. This case is the tricky one because it matters whether y is *z*'s right child.

In order to move subtrees around within the binary search tree, we define a subroutine *TRANSPLANT*, which replaces one subtree as a child of its parent with another subtree. When *TRANSPLANT* replaces the subtree rooted at node *u* with the subtree rooted at node *v*, node *u*'s parent becomes node *v*'s parent, and *u*'s parent ends up having *v* as its appropriate child.

```java
public void transplant(TreeNode root,TreeNode u,TreeNode v){
	if (u.parent == null){
		root = v;
	}else if(u == u.parent.left){
		u.parent.left = v;
	}else{
		u.parent.right = v;
	}
	if (v != null){
		v.parent = u.parent;
	}
}
```

With the *TRANSPLANT* procedure in hand, here is the procedure that deletes node *z* from binary search tree *T*:

```java
public void treeDelete(TreeNode root, TreeNode z){
	// handle the case in which node z has no left child
    if (z.left == null){
        transplant(root, z, z.right);
    // handle the case in which node z has a left child but bo 
    }else if(z.right == null){
        transplant(root, z, z.left);
    // handle with z has two child
    }else{
        //finds node y, which is the successor of z
        TreeNode y = treeMinimum(z.right);
        //if y is not z's left child, replace y as a child of its parent by z's left child
        if (y.parent != z){
        	transplant(root, y, y.right);
        	y.right = z.right;
        	y.right.parent = y;
        }
        //if y is z's right child, replace z
        transplant(root, z, y);
        y.left = z.left;
        y.left.parent = y;
    }
}
```

*TREE-DELETE* runs in O(h) time on a tree of height.